well welcome everybody how are you today
welcome back to a TOEFL webinar with e
to language my name is jamal and today
we're going to be looking at the first
part of the TOEFL speaking test which
are the two independent speaking task
s-- so before I go any further can you
just confirm that you can all see and
hear me okay wonderful okay how many of
you who are here have actually taken the
TOEFL before just right yes if you have
taken the test before and know if you
have not okay so there's a bit of a mix
so some of you have never taken the
TOEFL before so we're just going to go
through the first two tasks I'm going to
walk you through them so by the end of
this lesson you should have an idea of
what to expect and for those of you who
have taken the test before this will be
a good review and practice for you so
let's get into it so today as I said
we're going to be looking at speaking
tasks one and two I'm going to go
through a task description where I'm
going to explain to you what tasks one
and two are each about I'm then going to
walk you through the requirements so
what the requirements are what the
expectations are for each of these two
speaking tasks I'm going to then give
you a practice I'm going to give you a
speaking question and I'm going to allow
you some time to prepare and practice
that and once that's done I'm going to
let you hear my sample response to those
questions and then by the end of the
class I'm going to give you the
evaluation so how your speaking is going
to be evaluated and scored and what the
expectations are there so
by the end of this lesson hopefully
you'll understand what you have to do in
these two speaking tasks you'll have
completed a practice each and you'll
also understand how they're scored
before we go any further you'll need to
grab a pen and paper because this lesson
is going to require you to plan your
response and then planning your response
you're going to need to write down some
notes so I'll give you a couple of
minutes if you don't already have a pen
and paper to do so in the TOEFL test
they're going to give you a pen and
paper in your cubicle
and you can use this to take notes for
your speaking for your writing for your
listening for your reading that's a very
important part of the test so everyone
has a pen and paper we can move on so
first we're going to look at speaking
task one so there are six TOEFL speaking
tasks all together today we're just
going to look at one two so a brief
description of task 1 task 1 requires
you to describe a topic this topic could
be a situation that you've been in or
that you're currently in an experience
that you've had related to a memory or
you could be asked to describe a thin
such as an object so you're going to
have to use sort of descriptive language
and you will need to use details from
your own personal experience so it's
kind of an easy task in the sense that
you're drawing on your own memories and
your own experiences and yeah it
shouldn't it shouldn't be too hard for
you to be able to do that the main
challenge there is really formulating
your answer using your preparation time
to really sort of help you formulate
your answer and we're going to go
through that together but before let's
take a look at the task requirements so
you're given the prompt which tells you
the thing that you have to describe and
then you're given 15 seconds to prepare
your risk
so what you should do in that 15 seconds
is really sort of break down the
question what are they asking you to
describe and write down a few points for
each of those things so your preparation
should really be just sort of points and
main ideas you're not going to have time
to write a full a full response or full
sentences now you have to speak for 45
seconds and it will be timed and at 45
seconds your time is going to cut out
now what you want to try to do is give a
full response within that 45 seconds if
you finish a couple of seconds early
it's not a big deal but if you only
speak for 30 seconds you may get
penalized okay because what they're
looking for is a full response with a
beginning a clear middle and an end so
you want to use your planning time just
sort of yeah create a presentation that
has a clear beginning middle and end so
we'll get into the practice now I'm
going to give you a sample task 1
speaking topic so let's take a look at
it talk about an interesting class you
have taken in school and why it stands
out in your mind include details and
examples to support your decision so you
can see that this is a description task
because it's asking you to describe a
class that you took in school now you
have to talk about a few things
describing the class why it stands out
and use details and examples so here's
the topic or thing you have to describe
an interesting class you have to say why
it stands out why was it so interesting
for you and you have to give details and
examples to support and explain why it
was interesting for you so here are the
kind of three things that you have to
make sure that you do within that
five seconds introduce the class explain
why it was interesting and then gives
some details and examples to support
that so I'm going to give you some
preparation time you should have your
pen and paper ready and I'm going to
actually timely I'm going to give you 15
seconds to prepare your response so
here's the prompt again and I'm going to
start the timer now
okay that's it as you can see 15 minutes
is not a long time so you really need to
do lots of practice with this task in
terms of using that 15 minutes wisely
what I would suggest you would do in
this case is interesting class you would
write one word for example math English
science whatever the class was why it
stands out for example the teacher or a
book that you read and then some
examples you know you're just going to
have to sometimes also improvise because
15 minutes isn't a long time sorry 15
seconds I keep saying 15 minutes 15
seconds okay so now you've taken you've
done your preparation I want you now to
practice speaking okay obviously I can't
hear you
but this is a good opportunity for you
to practice speaking with in timed
conditions so I'm going to give you 45
seconds to speak your response out loud
and your time starts now
okay your time is up so how did you do
did you manage to finish within 45
seconds
all right good well done so I'm going to
now give you my sample response so let's
just pretend this is me all right here
goes when I think back to my high school
days the class that I really loved was
English it was the most interesting
class for me because it's where I first
discovered Shakespeare
I remember it was 10th grade that my
teacher mrs. Wickens
first made us read Macbeth each day in
English class we would each have a turn
at reading part of the book mrs. Wiccans
would then ask us what we each thought
of the book and we would discuss our
interpretations
although Shakespearean language was
difficult the story was so engaging and
timeless that it made me want to read
more of Shakespeare's work it was
because of that English class that I
became a fan okay
now I finished perfectly on 45 seconds
so that's going to come with practice a
lot of times we don't know how much 45
seconds feels like so practicing
preparing in 15 seconds and practicing
speaking in 45 seconds will really help
you prepare for this task okay let's
move on to speaking tasks - let's look
at what this task is all about
now this task is all about giving your
opinion so you're going to be given a
statement or two statements and each one
is going to express a different opinion
so you're going to have to choose
between those two sides give your
opinion so which side you agree with and
then explain why you think that with
details and examples
so what is required of this task similar
to task one you're going to have 15
seconds to prepare your response by
writing down main ideas and you're going
to have 45 seconds to speak your
response so let's go into the practice
here is your sample topic some people
believe that books and other materials
of print are slowly being replaced by
the internet TV and other media others
think that there will always be a need
for printed material what do you think
and why give examples and details in
your response ok so let's break this
down let's look at the first opinion
opinion one some people think that books
and other methods of print are slowly
being replaced by the Internet TV and
other media so here we're comparing
print with digital media okay and the
idea is that print is going to be
completely replaced let's take a look at
the second opinion others think that
there will always be a need for printed
material so this is the other side of
the of the coin that printed material is
not going to die out it's always going
to be part of our culture then you have
to pick a side which one do you agree
with so the question says what do you
think and why do you believe that print
media is going to die out or do you
believe that they're still going to be a
need for it in the future so you need to
say which one you agree with and you
need to explain that with details and
examples so many of you might remember
your teachers always telling you it's
fine to have an opinion but you always
need to back it up my teachers always
used to tell me that so you can think
what you like but do you have to make
sure that you can support that with
tails evidence examples so that's the
important point here give examples and
details in your response okay it's time
to prepare so pens to paper you have 15
seconds
here's your prompt and your 15 seconds
starts now
okay time is up it's now time for you to
speak your response so I'm going to give
you 45 seconds to speak out loud and
your time starts now
okay times up how did you feel about
that one you were able to finish in that
in the required time okay yeah this one
is a little bit trickier because you're
having to formulate an opinion and then
explain why so I think the good a good
way of doing there is I'll just go back
is the first thing you need to do is
pick a side do you think print will
survive yes or no if you think no why
not and it's probably related to
technology so I mean the questions that
you're going to get here are always
going to be related to something that
you're familiar with all right something
from our culture from our education from
technology so it's just a matter of
really drawing on all of your ideas and
then good one what student has just said
I had so many ideas that I couldn't
finish so that's another thing sometimes
you might have too many ideas and you
have to really sort of narrow it down
sometimes we see a question like this
and we think oh it's such a complex type
is such a complex idea there's so much I
could say about it but it's only 45
seconds so you really just want to keep
it's quite simple so I'll give you an
example of my response okay I'll stop
the timer although I hope that there
will always be a need for print media I
believe it will eventually be replaced
by digital forms the digital revolution
has changed the way that information is
shared and accessed with the
proliferation of smartphones it means
that people no longer have to buy books
or newspapers as they can now access
these digitally via the Internet recent
generations
which have grown up with technology now
find books and other printed media
obsolete as digital technology has
merged all forms of printed material
into one tiny device where Internet and
TV can all be accessed so there's my
time so there I mentioned the first
thing I mentioned was although a hope
that printed media will survive I
believe it will eventually be replaced
there's my opinion and I stated back in
the very beginning and then I explained
why I said the digital revolution has
changed the way that we share
information people don't have to buy
printed media anymore and I gave the
examples of MOOCs and newspapers and I
said because all of that is now
accessible in one place on a smartphone
and so for that reason technology is
going to replace printed media so it was
quite simple I didn't give huge examples
I didn't give lots of examples you don't
really have a lot of time all right so
that's another thing in task 2 the
opinion 1 is really sort of practicing
condensing and simplifying your ideas
before we look at how the independent
speaking is evaluated does anyone have
any questions about task 1 or task 2
that we've just looked at
okay let's move on so evaluation the
independent speaking is out of four okay
so everybody of course wants to get
before so how do we get a four well we
need to speak with a fluid pace pace it
means how quickly or how slowly you
speak and how many stops and starts and
pauses and arms and hours you have so
the more used to be quite fluently with
less stops and starts the more the
higher score you're going to get in
terms of pace with pronunciation they're
looking for accurate pronunciation it
should be easy to understand the
examiners shouldn't have to sort of try
too hard to listen to try to make sense
of the words that you're using your
language basically your grammar and
vocabulary should be effective with only
minor errors so it doesn't have to be
perfect it just has to be mostly
accurate your response should
sufficiently address the prompt that
means that you stay on topic and you
answer the questions precisely and
development means that your response is
well developed so you give enough
examples to support your opinion and
that your ideas progress logically so
that you start off by stating your
opinion for example or stating the thing
you're describing then describing it
explaining why and then ending it so it
should follow a logical order what you
want to avoid is kind of finishing too
early and then having to go back and
then fill in the time because that sort
of will affect your development so
speaking with a clear
and consistent place using accurate
pronunciation grammar and vocabulary
answering the question so doing what the
question asks you to do and developing
your response with examples and
explanations okay that brings us to the
end of the independent speaking lesson
so today we looked at the first two
speaking tasks for the TOEFL test the
first one was description so you're
going to be asked to describe something
and experience a memory and object a
person and you're going to have 15
seconds to prepare and 45 to speak task
2 is an opinion you're going to be given
two sides to a story you're going to
have to choose one and explain why you
think that with reasons and examples
again 15 seconds preparation 45 seconds
are speaking now for those of you who
have not done the test before you will
be given headphones that have a
microphone attached and you're going to
be actually speaking into the computer
and your responses sent off to a test
center where examiner's then listen to
your response and evaluate it using the
criteria that we just looked at
okay so yeah some of you concerned about
the timing how do you answer the whole
question in 45 seconds I I would say you
have to practice every day try to answer
as many questions as you can you can
find sample questions on our website we
have quite a few of them in our TOEFL
course so you can access them from there
because practice does make perfect
especially in this situation
look learning how to manage your time is
really important part of this of this
task okay somebody has asked how many
points must be include in our response
now it's not that strict in terms of how
many points you should include but what
you do need to do is answer all parts of
the question so let's actually go back
to the very first slide the very first
task oops this is what I wanted so you
want to make sure that you do all of
these three things talk about an
interesting class so name the class and
then you can talk about when you've had
it and where you were when you had it
you can talk about why it stands out is
it because you made a new friend in that
class is it because you loved the
teacher and then explain more about it
so as long as you do these three things
then you've met the task response
criteria
now Edison is asking what if I only
mention the first two things and I don't
do this for example what if I talk about
the class and why it stands out but I
don't give details and examples then
that would affect the the score that
looks at the development so you might do
really well in your language you might
do really well in your pronunciation but
it means that your score might sort
you might be sort of be penalized in the
score that looks at development so you
want to try again that's time management
and time management is really comes down
to practice I did so many of these
before I was able to understand how to
manage my time and my response within 45
seconds and now I don't even have to
look at my clock I kind of have an idea
when I'm preparing how long my response
is now they do have a timer in the test
center so you can actually see you know
when your time is going to run out now
if you only give one detail and one
example then that's fine because you
don't have a lot of time to go into a
lot of detail it's not a three minute
presentation it's only 45 seconds so one
one example would be enough as long as
you elaborate that and fill in your time
okay guys yes this will be uploaded onto
YouTube last week's writing webinar is
now up on YouTube so you can access that
from there and this will also be put up
very shortly so okay Chris Christian do
I need an introduction it's not a formal
introduction but obviously the first
thing that you mention it you're going
to be introducing your class so for this
one my first sentence was when I think
back to my high school days the class
that I really loved was English in a
sense that is an introduction because
I'm in introducing the class and then I
go on which was English and then I go on
to talk about my English class why I
liked it
okay okay good good good one thing you
should avoid guys one of you have just
mentioned should you say something like
in this task I will speak about my
favorite class you can begin your your
response like that but it's very typical
and it's nice to sort of make it a
little bit more interesting so when I
think back to my high school days you
know my best memory of high school was
English class rather than today I'm
going to talk about the class that I
like the best which was English both of
those sentences do the same thing
they're both introducing the topic but
one does so in a more sort of
interesting in less formulaic way okay
so in relation to language you want to
avoid I mean you want to avoid slang and
you don't it doesn't have to be totally
formal but you don't want to be using
sort of language that you would use with
your friends you want to it's kind of
more semi-formal when you're speaking
for this task and you know the better
more sophisticated vocabulary that you
use obviously the better that's going to
impact on your scores all right guys
next week we're going to look at writing
again so join us then and we're going to
be looking at some writing structure
tips so how to structure your essays and
how to structure your sentences to write
grammatically correct sentences thank
you very much everyone it was a pleasure
seeing you and I look forward to seeing
you again next week bye